.TH DESTROY_WATCH 3 "January 3, 1997" "StopWatch 1.0" "STOPWATCH PROCEDURES"
.PD 0.0v


.SH NAME
destroy_watch - destroys a StopWatch watch

.SH SYNOPSIS
subroutine
.BI "destroy_watch" "(watch, clock, err)"


.IP
type (watchtype), intent(INOUT) ::  watch
.IP OR
type (watchtype), intent(INOUT) ::  watch(:)


.IP
character(len=*), optional, intent(IN) ::  clock
.IP OR
character(len=*), intent(IN) ::  clock(:)


.IP
integer, optional, intent(OUT) ::  err


.SH DESCRIPTION
Destroys the specified clocks of the specified watches.
If the watch has no remaining clocks after the
specified clocks are destroyed, then the watch is
destroyed and associated memory freed.  To avoid memory
leaks, watches should be destroyed when no longer
useful, before being recreated, and before returning
from a subroutine in which the watch is a local
variable.

One or more watches must be specified.  The argument
.I watch
can be a single variable of type
.I watchtype
(see
.BR "stopwatch" "(3))"
to destroy one watch, or an array of type
.I watchtype
to destroy several watches.

The optional argument
.I clock
specifies which clocks to destroy on the specified
watch(es).  If omitted, the current default clocks (see
.BR "option_stopwatch" "(3))"
are destroyed.  If present,
.I clock
must be a character string containing 'cpu', 'user',
\'sys', or 'wall', or an array of such character
strings.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If present, the optional intent OUT integer argument
.I err
returns a status code.  The code is the sum of the
values listed below.

An error message will be printed to a specified I/O
unit (unit 6 by default) if
.I print_errors
is TRUE (default is TRUE). The error message contains
more detail about the cause of the error than can be
obtained from just the status code, so you should set
.I print_errors
to TRUE if you have trouble determining the cause of
the error.

If
.I abort_errors
is TRUE (default is FALSE), the program will terminate
on an error condition.  Otherwise, the program will
continue execution but the watch(es) will not be
destroyed.

See
.BR "option_stopwatch" "(3)"
for further information on
.I print_errors, abort_errors
and I/O units.

The relevant status codes and messages are:


.IP 0
No errors; execution successful.


.IP 1
Watch needs to be created.  This error occurs if you
attempt to destroy a watch that has already been
destroyed.  The watch must first be created again.  See
also the comment about watches that have never been
created in the BUGS section.
.IP 8
Invalid clock type.  This occurs if
.I clock
is present and one of the specified clocks is not
supported by the implementation.  See
.BR "inquiry_stopwatch" "(3)"
to determine what clocks are available.


.IP 512
Failed to allocate required memory.  When
.B destroy_watch
is called with an array or group of watches, temporary
memory is allocated.  This error occurs if the Fortran
.B allocate
statement returns a nonzero status indicating that
memory could not be allocated.  Avoid memory leaks by
always destroying watches and groups before recreating
them, and destroying local variable watches and groups
before returning from a subroutine.


.IP 1024
Error occurred while deallocating memory.  This error
occurs if the Fortran
.B deallocate
statement returns a nonzero status while deallocating
the memory for the watch or temporary memory used for
an array or group of watches.  The watches are
destroyed, but be aware that other problems could
develop as a result of the deallocate error.


.LP

In addition to the run time diagnostics generated by
StopWatch, the following problems may arise:


.IP o
Since
.I watch
has intent OUT, you cannot use an array constructor as
an actual argument to construct an array of watches.
Some compilers will recognize this as a compile time
error, but will generate an obscure error message, such
as ``no specific match for generic name''.


.IP o
In Fortran 90, the character strings in an array
constructor must all have the same length.  Pad three
letter clock names with a blank on the right to make a
four character string, for example, 'cpu '.


.SH EXAMPLES
type (watchtype) w1, w2(3)
.br
integer errcode

call destroy_watch(w1)
.br
call destroy_watch(w2, (/'sys ', 'user'/), err=errcode)

The first call destroys the default clocks on a single
watch.  Assuming the default clocks have not changed
since the watch was created, the watch will be
destroyed.  The second call destroys the sys and user
clocks on three watches given as an array and returns a
status code.  Assuming the watch also had the cpu or
wall clock, the watches are not destroyed.

.SH BUGS
It cannot be determined whether or not a watch variable
or watch group has been created (passed as an argument
to
.B create_watch
or
.BR "create_watchgroup" ")."
If a watch or watch group that has never been created
is passed into
.B destroy_watch,
it might generate a Fortran error due to passing a
pointer with undefined association status to the
Fortran intrinsic function
.B associated.
However, some compilers will allow this as an extension
to the Fortran 90 standard and recognize that the
pointer is not associated, in which case the ``Watch
needs to be created'' error message is generated.

.SH AUTHOR
William F. Mitchell, william.mitchell@nist.gov
.br
National Institute of Standards and Technology


.SH SEE ALSO
stopwatch(3), create_watchgroup(3),
destroy_watchgroup(3), end_pause_watch(3),
inquiry_stopwatch(3), join_watchgroup(3),
leave_watchgroup(3), option_stopwatch(3),
pause_watch(3), print_watch(3), read_watch(3),
reset_watch(3), start_watch(3), stop_watch(3)
