.TH STOPWATCH 3 "January 3, 1997" "StopWatch 1.0" "STOPWATCH OVERVIEW"
.PD 0.0v


.SH NAME
stopwatch - package for measuring cpu and wall clock
execution time

.SH SYNOPSIS
StopWatch is a Fortran 90 module for measuring
execution time of program segments.  StopWatch is
designed to be a portable, easy-to-use means of
measuring execution time.  It supports the wall clock,
CPU clock, a breakdown of the CPU clock into user and
system times, and returns all times in seconds.  It
provides a simple means of determining which clocks are
available, and the precision of those clocks.

StopWatch is used by instrumenting your code with
subroutine calls that mimic the operation of a stop
watch.  The primary routines are
.B start_watch, stop_watch, reset_watch, read_watch,
and
.B print_watch.
StopWatch supports multiple watches, and provides the
concept of watch groups to allow functions to operate
on multiple watches simultaneously.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The entities in StopWatch that have public
accessibility are two derived types and fifteen
subroutines (one of which is a function subroutine).
Any program unit that references any of these entities
must use the
.I stopwatch
module, i.e., must contain the statement

use stopwatch

The derived types are:

.IP o

.I watchtype
-- used for declaring a variable to be a watch


.IP o

.I watchgroup
-- used for declaring a variable to be a handle for a
group of watches


.LP

These two types have public accessibility, but the
internals of the type are private.  Any operations
performed on a variable of one of these types must be
performed by one of the StopWatch subroutines.

This man page describes, in general terms, the
operations that can be performed by the StopWatch
subroutines.  The formal interfaces and detailed
descriptions of the routines can be found in the
individual man pages.

A watch is a variable declared to be of type
.I watchtype.
It can be passed to subroutines as an actual argument
or through modules like any Fortran variable, but can
only be operated on by the StopWatch subroutines.
Watches must be created by subroutine
.B create_watch
before they are used.  Attempting to use a watch that
has not been created will generate a Fortran 90 error,
from attempting to pass a pointer with undefined
association status to the Fortran intrinsic function
.B associated.
Watches must be destroyed when no longer useful.  For
example, consider a local variable of type
.I watchtype
in a subroutine.  Since the contents of a local
variable are lost when the subroutine returns, the
watch should be destroyed before returning to the
calling program.  Failure to destroy watches can lead
to a memory leak.

.IP o

.B create_watch
-- creates a watch


.IP o

.B destroy_watch
-- destroys a watch


.LP

Watches can optionally be given a name (up to 132
characters) through an optional argument,
.I name,
in
.B create_watch.
This name is used in error messages and
.B print_watch
to identify the watch in the printed output.

Different applications demand different definitions of
``time''.  StopWatch supports four clocks in each
watch, with each clock measuring a different concept of
time.  All of them measure time in seconds.

.IP o
user -- the amount of CPU time used by the user's
program


.IP o
sys -- the amount of CPU time used by the system in
support of the user's program


.IP o
cpu -- the total CPU time, i.e., user+sys


.IP o
wall -- the wall clock time, i.e., elapsed real time


.LP

It is not required that all clocks be used.  A watch
can be created with any combination of the four clocks.
You can also specify a set of
.I default clocks
to be used whenever the clocks are not explicitly
determined.

Since Fortran 90 does not contain an intrinsic function
for CPU time, the implementation of the cpu, sys and
user clocks is system dependent.  Some implementations
may support only cpu and wall, not user and sys.  Some
implementations may support only wall.  Since the
Fortran 90 standard requires the existence of a
.B system_clock
subroutine, but does not require that it provide clock
information, it is possible that some implementations
might not support wall.  Clock availability can be
determined by
.B inquiry_stopwatch.
Unavailable clocks will automatically be removed from
the set of default clocks, but if a clock that is not
available is explicitly requested, a warning message
will be generated.

StopWatch supports multiple watches simultaneously.
Often it is useful to perform the same operation on
several watches.  This is essential for correct
operation of
.B pause_watch
and
.B end_pause_watch,
and can also be convenient for procedures like
.B read_watch, print_watch,
and
.B reset_watch.
To facilitate this, StopWatch supports the concept of
.I watch groups.
When calling a StopWatch subroutine, a watch group can
be specified instead of a watch.  The group is
referenced by a variable of type
.I watchgroup.
Watch groups must be created before they are used.
Attempting to use a watch group that has not been
created will generate a Fortran 90 error, from
attempting to pass a pointer with undefined association
status to the Fortran intrinsic function
.B associated.
Watch groups must be destroyed when no longer useful.
The watches themselves are not destroyed, only the
grouping of them.  Failure to destroy watch groups can
lead to a memory leak.

.IP o

.B create_watchgroup
-- creates a new watch group


.IP o

.B destroy_watchgroup
-- destroys a watch group (but not the watches in the
group)


.LP

Most StopWatch subroutines take
.I watch
as the first dummy argument, and accept several forms
of
.I watch.
The forms are:

.IP o
type (watchtype) watch -- a single watch


.IP o
type (watchtype) watch(:)  -- an array of watches


.IP o
type (watchgroup) watch -- a watch group handle


.LP

In most StopWatch routines, an array of watches can be
specified by an array constructor in the calling
statement, for example:

type (watchtype) watch ::  w1, w2, w3

call print_watch( (/w1,w2,w3/) )

However, this can not be used in routines where
.I watch
has intent OUT or intent INOUT, because the array
constructor is actually an expression, not a list of
the variables.  Currently this includes the routines
.B create_watch
and
.B destroy_watch.


Most StopWatch subroutines take
.I clock
as the (optional) second dummy argument to determine
which of the four clocks will be affected by the
action.
.I clock
can be one of the character strings 'user', 'sys',
\'cpu', or 'wall', or can be an array of such character
strings to specify more than one clock.  Since
.I clock
is always intent IN, an array of clock types can be
built with an array constructor.  However, note that
Fortran 90 requires all character strings in such a
construction to have the same length.  Thus 'sys' and
\'cpu' should be padded with a blank, as in:

call start_watch(watch, (/'user','sys ','cpu '/) )

If the optional argument
.I clock
is omitted, the current set of default clocks is used.
The set of default clocks is set with
.B option_stopwatch
and initially consists of all available clocks.

A StopWatch watch is operated on by subroutine calls
that correspond to the actions performed with a common
stop watch.  The basic operation of a watch involves
starting it, stopping it, and resetting it's value to
0.

.IP o

.B start_watch
-- starts an idle watch, like the Start/Stop button on
a stop watch


.IP o

.B stop_watch
-- stops a running watch, like the Start/Stop button on
a stop watch


.IP o

.B reset_watch
-- sets the clocks on a watch to 0.0, like the Reset
button on a stop watch


.LP

Of course, running a stop watch is of little use unless
you can see what it says.

.IP o

.B read_watch
-- returns the current clock value of a watch, like
looking at the display of a stop watch


.IP o

.B print_watch
-- prints the current clock value of a watch to an
output device.  To push the analogy to the limit,
imagine a stop watch with a printer attached to it.


.LP

The routine
.B read_watch
is a function subroutine.  The result is either a
scalar, array of rank one, or array of rank two
depending on whether
.I watch
and
.I clock
are scalars or arrays.

When measuring CPU time, it is often desirable to not
include the time used by certain parts of the code,
such as printing or graphics.  In a subroutine, you
might not know which of the clocks are currently
running, so you can not simply stop them before the I/O
and start them up again after the I/O. For this,
StopWatch provides the pause function.

.IP o

.B pause_watch
-- temporarily suspend the running watches


.IP o

.B end_pause_watch
-- resume suspended watches


.LP

Besides
.B create_watchgroup
and
.B destroy_watchgroup,
there are two operations that can be performed on
.I watchgroup
variables:

.IP o

.B join_watchgroup
-- adds a watch to a watch group


.IP o

.B leave_watchgroup
-- removes a watch from a watch group


.LP

Subroutines are provided to set several options within
StopWatch, to determine the current value of these
options, and to determine system dependent values of
the implementation.

.IP o

.B option_stopwatch
-- sets options within StopWatch.


.IP o

.B inquiry_stopwatch
-- returns values of options and system dependent
values


.LP

See
.BR "option_stopwatch" "(3)"
and
.BR "inquiry_stopwatch" "(3)"
for a description of the options and system dependent
values that can be set and read.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All StopWatch subroutines take an optional intent OUT
integer argument
.I err
which, if present, returns a status code.  The code is
the sum of the values listed below.

Errors can also be determined through printed error
messages.  An error message will be printed to a
specified I/O unit (unit 6 by default) if
.I print_errors
is TRUE (default is TRUE). The error message contains
more detail about the cause of the error than can be
obtained from just the status code, so you should set
.I print_errors
to TRUE if you have trouble determining the cause of
the error.

All errors are non-fatal.  If
.I abort_errors
is TRUE (default is FALSE), the program will terminate
on an error condition.  Otherwise, the program will
continue execution but the requested operation will not
be performed.

See
.BR "option_stopwatch" "(3)"
for further information on
.I print_errors, abort_errors
and I/O units.

The relevant status codes and messages are:


.IP 0
No errors; execution successful.


.IP 1
Watch needs to be created.  This error occurs if you
attempt to use a watch that has been destroyed.  The
watch must first be created again.  See also the
comment about watches that have never been created in
the BUGS section.


.IP 2
Watch is in the wrong state for this operation.  This
occurs when you attempt to start a watch that is
currently running, stop a watch that is not running,
etc.


.IP 4
Watch is in an unknown state.  This occurs if StopWatch
does not recognize the state (running, stopped, etc.)
that the watch is in.  This error should not occur, and
indicates an internal bug in StopWatch.


.IP 8
Invalid clock type.  This occurs if
.I clock
is present and one of the specified clocks is not
supported by the implementation.  See
.BR "inquiry_stopwatch" "(3)"
to determine what clocks are available.


.IP 16
Too many clocks specified.  This occurs when the
argument
.I clock
is an array longer than four.


.IP 32
Number of names is not equal to number of watches.
This occurs in
.B create_watch
if the array of watch names is not of the same length
as the array of watches.


.IP 64
Character string too long.  This occurs when a watch
name with more than 132 characters is passed into
.B create_watch.



.IP 128
Watch not found in given group.  This occurs when you
attempt to remove a watch from a group that it does not
belong to.


.IP 256
I/O unit is not open for writing.  This can occur from
.B print_watch
or when printing an error message.


.IP 512
Failed to allocate required memory.  When a StopWatch
routine is called with an array or group of watches,
temporary memory is allocated.  This error occurs if
the Fortran
.B allocate
statement returns a nonzero status indicating that
memory could not be allocated.  Avoid memory leaks by
always destroying watches and groups before recreating
them, and destroying local variable watches and groups
before returning from a subroutine.


.IP 1024
Error occurred while deallocating memory.  This error
occurs if the Fortran
.B deallocate
statement returns a nonzero status while deallocating
temporary memory used for an array or group of watches.
The operation is performed, but be aware that other
problems could develop as a result of the deallocate
error.


.IP 2048
Illegal output form.  This error occurs in
.B option_stopwatch
or
.B print_watch
if the given print format is not one of the valid
strings (see
.BR "print_watch" "(3)"
).


.LP

In addition to the run time diagnostics generated by
StopWatch, the following problems may arise:


.IP o
In Fortran 90, the character strings in an array
constructor must all have the same length.  Pad three
letter clock names with a blank on the right to make a
four character string, for example, 'cpu ', and pad
watch names so they all have the same length (within an
array constructor).


.IP o
In
.B create_watch
and
.BI "destroy_watch," " watch"
has intent OUT or INOUT, so you cannot use an array
constructor as an actual argument to construct an array
of watches.  Some compilers will recognize this as a
compile time error, but will generate an obscure error
message, such as ``no specific match for generic
name''.


.SH BUGS
It cannot be determined whether or not a watch variable
or watch group has been created (passed as an argument
to
.B create_watch
or
.BR "create_watchgroup" ")."
If a watch or watch group that has never been created
is passed into a StopWatch subroutine, it might
generate a Fortran error due to passing a pointer with
undefined association status to the Fortran intrinsic
function
.B associated.
However, some compilers will allow this as an extension
to the Fortran 90 standard and recognize that the
pointer is not associated, in which case the ``Watch
needs to be created'' error message is generated.

.SH AUTHOR
William F. Mitchell, william.mitchell@nist.gov
.br
National Institute of Standards and Technology


.SH SEE ALSO
create_watchgroup(3), create_watch(3),
destroy_watchgroup(3), destroy_watch(3),
end_pause_watch(3), inquiry_stopwatch(3),
join_watchgroup(3), leave_watchgroup(3),
option_stopwatch(3), pause_watch(3), print_watch(3),
read_watch(3), reset_watch(3), start_watch(3),
stop_watch(3)
